---
layout: post
title:  "Flight"
date:   2018-09-21 11:24:15 -0700
categories: opensource
---

On a crisp spring day in Illinois, my fourth grade teacher Mrs Dare conspired with my mother (my own flesh and blood) to give me an extra batch of homework assignments. They claimed it was just one extra homework assignment, but it turned out the be the largest project I had ever worked on up until that point  and perhaps for a few years afterward. It came about when my mother (if I might remind you: my own flesh and blood) turned me in because I had been skipping school by feigning sick every Monday for several months in a row. (Of course, for the rest of my education I learned to introduce randomness into my school skipping to throw off any "well-meaning" mothers.) My project was to research paper airplanes: build them, test them, and determine which design was best. I had to learn about the Wright brothers and what made airplanes fly to begin with (hint: magic). The Wright brothers were "just some randos", as history tells it, that decided they wanted to fly, not _really_ having the slightest inkling of the mysteries they were beginning to unravel.

Surprisingly, or perhaps not, when the brothers returned from Kitty Hawk after changing the world forever, most people didn't _really_ believe them. One of their neighbors, one Mr. Webbert (you know, down in the Old Webbert Place) told them:

> I know you boys are truthful and if you say you flew through the air in a machine, I believe you. But then, down there on the Carolina coast you had special conditions to help you. Of course you couldn't do it anywhere else.

Oh yes, of course you boys flew, yes the boys down at the bike shop made a flying machine-- I can't wait to tell my wife. It's so silly, really. A friend comes to visit me and flies in from who-knows-where and I ask them, "How was your flight?" While they prattle on about being delayed or not enjoying their pretzels like they were hoping ("what were you expecting in a mid-flight pretzel?", I say) in the back of my mind I'm thinking, "oh right, sure-- *if you say you flew through the air in a machine, I believe you*."

The brothers worked on their machine in a nearby pasture filled with cows and bordered by a public road. They often had people stop along the road and watch them push their plane down a wooden track, slowly lift off, and fly down the field. The Wrights extended an open invitation to the public and to newspapers to come by at any time and ask questions, or just watch. Slowly, gradually, people started to believe that these guys had built a flying machine.

The story of the Wright brothers is engrossing and magical because they _sort of_ just stumbled into flight by being persistent about their dreams. I don't wish to downplay the intelligence of the Wright brothers, they were clearly very gifted, but "smarter" people certainly came before them and "smarter" people were at work on flight during the same time. It was their tenacity, their *pluckiness* that put them in the air first.

We're plucky here at Enklu. One of us shoos the cows out of the way while another starts up the machine and climbs aboard. "This isn't insane at all," we all say to each other. Onlookers can't help but cringe as the monstrosity plunges down the wooden track, gaining speed, gaining speed.

> If you are looking for perfect safety, you will do well to sit on a fence and watch the birds; but if you really wish to learn, you must mount a machine and become acquainted with its tricks by actual trial.
>
> Wilbur Wright

Today we're mounting the machine and plunging down the track **by opening up our augmented reality runtime, [Enklu Player](https://github.com/enklu/enkluplayer/), to the open source community**. This is a bit of a dream for us. AR is a tricksy medium that's not yet well understood, but we're pretty proud of our little creation. We want you all to see it, but more than that: we want you to be a part of it. Why just watch us when you can climb aboard too?

[Enklu Player](https://github.com/enklu/enkluplayer) is a program that runs real-time multiplayer interactive AR experiences. It runs on HoloLens, iOS, Android, and the web. It is part of the more expansive [Enklu](https://enklu.com) ecosystem, which provides tools and services for creating and distributing AR experiences. What comes in the box: hosted networking, asset processing, multi-user tools, device management, various on-location services, and much more but it would take some time to tell.

We would love for you to create an [Enklu](https://editor.enklu.com) account and take advantage of everything we have to offer, but that's certainly not required to use or modify Enklu Player. Use it in your own application or-- just pick some pieces here and there for your own project. We also have other resources like Unity libraries for [logging](https://github.com/enklu/commons-unity-logging), [asynchronous operations](https://github.com/enklu/commons-unity-async), [http](https://github.com/enklu/commons-unity-http), [debug rendering](https://github.com/enklu/commons-unity-debugrendering), [messaging](https://github.com/enklu/commons-unity-messaging), or [gradle build tools](https://github.com/enklu/commons-gradle-unity). We're serious about open source software, and we hope you'll join us.



> All Wright brothers quotes taken from [A Study in Human Incredulity](http://www.wright-brothers.org/History_Wing/Aviations_Attic/They_Wouldnt_Believe/They_Wouldnt_Believe_the_Wrights_Had_Flown.htm).